So, what is Deno?
Deno is a JavaScript runtime
based on Chrome's V8 JavaScript engine.
And if you think about that sentence,
if you read it,
it might sound quite familiar,
that's the same thing Node.js is.
Node.js also is a JavaScript runtime
based on Chrome's V8 JavaScript engine.
So, is Deno the same thing?
Well, let's see.
Deno, since it is that JavaScript runtime,
allows us to run JavaScript outside of the browser,
just like Node.
But now there are a couple of key features in Deno,
which don't exist like that in Node,
for example, Deno is not only a JavaScript runtime
but actually a JavaScript and TypeScript runtime.
Now I do have a whole module,
where I show you that you can use TypeScript
with Node.js as well.
The key difference is that for Node,
Node itself, the Node executable is only capable
of executing JavaScript code,
TypeScript code needs to be compiled
to JavaScript code first.
Deno on the other hand is also an executable,
which is capable of executing JavaScript code,
but it's also capable
of executing uncompiled TypeScript code,
because Deno has its own built in TypeScript compiler.
Now, in addition, Deno supports URL imports out of the box,
and modern JavaScript features like promises are embraced.
Now, I do you also have that module,
on modern JavaScript with Node
and there you learn that you can also import
in a different way than used in the majority of the course
and that you can use promises for example, on
some of the built in features
but unlike Node, Deno embraces this concept
out of the box from very start
simply because it's newer than Node.
There also is something about these URL imports
that differs significantly from how
you manage dependencies and Node projects,
but I will come back to that later.
And last but not least one other key difference
and one other key feature of Deno
is that it's secure by default.
Now, if you read it like this, this sounds horrible, right?
It sounds like Node is not secure,
and that's not the case.
I'll come back to what I mean with secure
and which specific aspect this is about
throughout this module, and you will see
that it's not that horrible,
but that it still might be a nice feature to have.
So let's maybe now get started with Deno,
let's write some code so that we get a feeling for it
and let's then step-by-step
find out what the differences are compared to Node
how you can build apps with Deno,
and in the end, let's find out whether you should switch.